# Project: Stadistical validation of meteorological southern stations of Peru 🌧️
The objective of this study is to determine the level of error of the Spline and Kriging interpolation methods for the meteorological variables of precipitation, temperature and relative humidity in the department of Puno - Peru and its surrounding areas in order to estimate the data in places where there is no data. Puno, a region located in the southeastern region of the country, is known for its varied topography that includes everything from highland plains to high Andean mountains. This geographic diversity significantly influences climate patterns, making Puno an ideal region to study the precision of different meteorological data interpolation methods.
Data from SENAMHI stations over a 10-year period and ERA-5 reanalysis data will be used to determine the 30-year climatology. As a previous step, in the data from meteorological stations, homogenization of the data is carried out and it is determined which date intervals have the least data gap, a monthly average of the variables of interest is made in the period from 2001 to 2010. , and from this average monthly interpolations of the maximum temperature, minimum temperature and precipitation are made and the data are exported in a multi-temporal grid format or NCDF. For these interpolations, two types of interpolation are carried out, which are Warfare and Spline nearnest.
Statistical measurements of scalar pressure such as MSE, RMSE, MAE and MAD are carried out to compare the precision of both interpolation methods during the 12 months of the year. This analysis will help identify patterns, generation of a high spatial resolution grid database and possible improvements in the application of statistics in the Puno region, this by identifying of the interpolation technique with greater precision compared to the others. (Wilks, 2011).
